[Music]
all right so we're getting to that time
hello everyone and thank you so much for
joining good afternoon good evening good
morning depending on where you are in
the world I'm really excited to talk to
you today about how to drive retention
with your product during this time a
little bit about me I'm the head of
design at gainsight and prior to that I
worked in product and design at some
really amazing companies like box and
Salesforce and on a personal note I am
also a crazy cat lady so if we're lucky
maybe some of my friends at home will
make an appearance during the meeting so
in our industry a lot of you probably
have heard of gainsight and know us as a
lead it you know leader in the customer
success industry but as you know as you
scale a company the one-to-one
relationship between CSM and the people
at your customers company you know needs
help to scale and so that's why we
launched gainsight PX last year
gainsight PX is a all about product
experience and the integration between
customer success and products and how
you can combine those to drive outcomes
and the reason that we launched px was
really to help bring a more personalized
experience into your product and we do
that by letting you know what people are
doing inside of your application what is
their feedback you know that can be
anything from NPS surveys that are in
context of very specific area of your
product or things like customer effort
score and finally helping to drive
people to value so that means
personalizing engagements to help scale
your onboarding and adoption so in SAS
sometimes we take this recurring revenue
model for granted but we know the models
are emerging and Kovu 19 is accelerating
this change greatly
every executive you know they're in a
spreadsheet they're modeling out what
the future might be and they're looking
to consolidate spend they're looking to
they're looking to see outcomes they
need to see the ROI of your product and
because of this churn is really top
priority so for those of you who have
been watching and following the show
today
you've probably you've probably talked
about this a lot but my CEO Nick he's
had a lot of conversations with
executives and CEOs in other SAS
companies over the last few weeks and
over the last month and overwhelmingly
you know over even new business churn is
extremely important so because of this
the responsibility for retention doesn't
just lie with the CSM especially right
now we need to be creative and you know
how we're shifting people and and how
responsibilities might change within an
organization so because of that I'm
going to share three roots three
strategies for using your product to
survive and thrive during kovin 19 now
one thing I want to mention is that this
is really interesting among our
customers about 50 percent of the
customers have an increase in daily
active usage and so what the reason I
bring this up is not to say that you
know pandemics are great or that this is
going to last forever but this is a very
very unique time where you have the
ability at scale to see how your how
your users are performing within your
app so the first strategy that I want to
talk about is analyzing product usage
and you may not be a product person
that's totally fine I think that talking
about analytics can be a little bit
daunting at first and one of the hardest
parts about this is the actual
instrumentation of your product you know
sometimes you need engineers to code it
and things like that but there are
plenty of tools out there including px
that'll do that automatically for you so
you know that's one thing and then
within you know a lot of analytics
products they'll come out of the box
with some of these pre-built reports and
so what I want to do is walk you through
how you might use some of these reports
right now to understand your customers
better so you know the number one cause
of churn is the under utilization of
seats now of course there can be a bunch
of other factors that influence that but
we know that you know if everybody is
using the product it's likely that there
will be a case for renewal now what I
want to emphasize here is this is a
really great time to know what is a
healthy active user so a lot of times
you will hear or talk about daily active
users weekly monthly and daily active
usage doesn't necessarily mean that your
product is going to be retained any
better so if you have the data from you
know previous years I encourage you to
take a look at what is the right cadence
for people to be using your product in
order to retain them and renew them and
the reason for this is we have to be
especially careful about what we're
communicating to people right now and so
you know you don't necessarily want to
try to push that daily usage if it's not
appropriate you know on the other end if
you find that hey you're a product
productivity app you know then then that
might be okay but also take a look at
who and your user base is under
utilizing the app so are there any
trends among these groups and what can
you derive from those trends I also
encourage you to learn from what your
users are doing in the app so this is a
you know a very nice graphic but
basically we have a feature called our
cockpit which is where our users go to
see kind of a list of tasks we call them
CTAs a list of things they're supposed
to do that day and we also heard that
people were saying you know I don't know
where I am inside of your app all the
time and it gets really confusing and so
said okay well we know we need to do a
redesign what do we need to redesign and
what we learned from this path analysis
is that they'll start from the homepage
they go to the cockpit then they'll go
to a detail then they go back to the
cockpit then they go back to the another
detail and they're just clicking around
and it's so obvious things are opening
at ads everywhere and so this gave us
really great insight that we needed to
find a way to just open that thing in
line so that they didn't have to leave
the context and this is just one example
but every everything that people have to
learn counts every frustration counts
and I want to mention funnels so a lot
of the time we talk about funnels in the
case of acquiring new customers but
funnels are really important for in-app
too so think about you know you should
always know what are the top three to
five most important workflows in your
app or if you work on a certain area of
the product what are the most important
workflows there you may be lucky enough
to have the data that tells you what
those workflows are but if not just go
ahead and guess I mean you probably know
what you what the intended actions are
for people to do and then you know just
set those up and see where people are
dropping off if people are dropping off
greatly at some point it's usually due
to two reasons
one they're not expecting to see what
what you're showing them so they didn't
know that they were gonna get what you
gave them or the experience is too
complicated and it needs to be
simplified we're going through a radical
simplification right now and you know I
encourage you it's gonna be
uncomfortable but take a look at this
drop-off point and see what are the
things on here that 50 that you know
less than 80 percent of the population
is using or less than 50 percent and see
if you can live without those or if
therefore if they are just for power
users you can train those power users if
it's someone's full-time job to use your
product or administer your product
they're gonna take the time to invest
the second strategy I want to bring up
is being really thoughtful about hey how
you engage your users so we know that
there are some companies that are being
really negatively impacted by kovat it's
these category one kind of businesses
and then there are businesses in
category three that may be seeing a big
surge right now and of course you know I
think a sass sometimes or generally can
fall in this category too but we often
serve people on category one so you're
going to need to use a very different
tone for each of these different groups
of people and you're probably going to
want to highlight different offers so
for category one I think we know that
there are things that like extending
trials or you know giving sort of some
exposing some features or maybe doing
some kind of a freemium thing that maybe
in scope and if you have the ability or
it makes sense for your business to do
that that's great but you should also be
conscious that some of these companies
are just going to churn it's very
important that you think through how you
treat these companies because sometimes
in a lot of cases there's gonna be
nothing you can do about it the business
goes out of business it's gone but the
people that are in that business are
humans and so they're gonna remember how
you treated them so even if you can't
get them to stay with your product or
pause your product they still want your
help
and then category 3 you know take a look
at if it makes sense to expand with
those customers they may need more
services they need more they may need
more training also getting those
communications ready none of us were
prepared for this right you know unless
you're a crisis communications team but
we launched about a month ago this five
best practices for crisis comms and it
actually was one of the top five now
most viewed posts that gainsight has
ever has ever written on our blog and so
you know people are looking for help
they're looking to connect and let's say
that you are experiencing a sir
in traffic or in usage you may have
delays and support you may you know you
may need to you may have outages that
are coming up or you're going to do a
new release all of those things it's
very important to have them plan so try
to think about you know what might come
up so you're not caught off guard in
that scenario and think through how you
can create user journeys to reactivate
your dormant users so there might be
things that are now now you SFIL in your
product that may not have been useful
certain populations before and I would
think about how you can how you can
bring those back up and let's say that
somebody clicks on your email let's say
it's just content and they don't go into
your app you can still learn a lot about
what people care about right now by what
they're actually clicking on and
engaging with and also you know like I
mentioned earlier be very conscious of
what is the right channel and what is
the right frequency of outreach right
now the third strategy I want to mention
is helping your users find immediate
value so in your onboarding experience
people want to know right away why
they're here and what they need to do so
which features are more relevant now but
also people are nervous people are
nervous about their jobs everyone's
nervous so how can your product help
them be better at their job be very
specific and then also how can your
product help your users help their
customers you also want to help people
win every time these small wins really
matter and you know like I mentioned
there are definitely they're gonna be
brand new people coming into your
product right now there's gonna be
people coming back after you know some
period of time and there's gonna be
advanced users so you know in this
example this is a you know this is a HR
app and you know coming in and
onboarding like if you can complete a
task
that's really important and especially
if you find that you're one of those
products that maybe isn't a daily
doesn't need to be a daily active usage
product like HR is a great example but
there are others help people to know
what to do
tell guide them tell them and help them
win and finally the third point here
that I want to mention is as much as I'm
talking about enough engagements and
in-app experiences what I'm not
encouraging is popping modal every time
somebody you know clicks than a new page
of your app it's very important to
figure out the least invasive way to not
break the person's workflow and you know
there are also going to be promoters and
your promoters are really important
right now so what we're looking at is
the gainsight experience Center this is
a kind of a customer experience product
we're launching and it's sort of the
source of the voice of a customer so
it's important to collect data so you
can collect and PS data customer
experience but also things like
sentiment analysis and kind of mashing
those up and the great thing is
sentiment analysis is one of those other
things that it's like oh I'd you know
five years ago is like oh I'm not a data
scientist I don't know how to do that
it's you know there are plenty of you
know products platforms available to
help seeing the influence maps in your
organization so the person that you're
selling to or the person that you're
selling to may not be connected to your
biggest promoter so how can you create
those relationships and finally taking
that data and showing it to the
decision-makers to really prove ROI did
their people save time are they happier
that will help you to drive your
renewals all right so I'm going to get
into a little bit of workshop but I want
to just take one minute to invite you to
join us next month for our free pulse
conference if you liked what
talked about today there's gonna be a
lot more of it the URL is here so feel
free feel free to do that and I want to
offer you this take-home exercise which
kind of summarizes you know a couple of
the categories that we talked about and
every business is different and so you
know I would encourage you to brainstorm
and kind of see what's appropriate for
your business and and how you can how
you can best leverage these strategies
for your own alright I think we can go
to Q & A so let's stop sharing all right
so great question what's the best way to
get to the executive sponsor we're
seeing more and more decisions be harder
to make where the CFO or the CEO needs
to sign on yeah I mean I would go with a
couple things you know first is trying
to kind of prove that ROI I mean what
what the CEO and CFO cares about is are
you helping you know are you helping are
you helping our team in some way are you
helping us to save money they want to
consolidate their spending as well so
how can you better integrate with the
tools that are already there I think you
know I think that would be very that
would be very useful at this time okay
what is the most common thing
applications devs get wrong from a CX
design perspective hmm
okay so I think it's really important to
be able to surface up the right
information so there's a question that
product managers get asked all the time
which is like how do you take in all
these different sources of information
and and how do you kind of like how do
you figure out how what to prioritize
the same thing applies to CX and so I
think one thing is
of ensuring that you have a way to sort
of set up filters on the topics that are
important to you while also enabling
that freeform
kind of input all right let's see yes so
then can you post a link to the take
home exercise yes
the link is is right up here and I don't
know if I can get the copy and paste it
in but it's gainsight - sass turts lat -
PLG all right can you summarize the
strategies yes so strategy one analyzing
the product usage and I think you'll
have access to this document afterwards
as well engaging users really
thoughtfully so sending the right
message into the right people and
helping your users find immediate value
and I think that is it so thank you
everyone for joining and I hope you have
a great rest of you did
[Music]